{"id": "pubmed23n0001_0", "title": "[Biochemical studies on camomile components/III. In vitro studies about the antipeptic activity of (--)-alpha-bisabolol (author's transl)].", "content": "(--)-alpha-Bisabolol has a primary antipeptic action depending on dosage, which is not caused by an alteration of the pH-value. The proteolytic activity of pepsin is reduced by 50 percent through addition of bisabolol in the ratio of 1/0.5. The antipeptic action of bisabolol only occurs in case of direct contact. In case of a previous contact with the substrate, the inhibiting effect is lost.", "contents": "[Biochemical studies on camomile components/III. In vitro studies about the antipeptic activity of (--)-alpha-bisabolol (author's transl)]. (--)-alpha-Bisabolol has a primary antipeptic action depending on dosage, which is not caused by an alteration of the pH-value. The proteolytic activity of pepsin is reduced by 50 percent through addition of bisabolol in the ratio of 1/0.5. The antipeptic action of bisabolol only occurs in case of direct contact. In case of a previous contact with the substrate, the inhibiting effect is lost.", "PMID": 21}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_1", "title": "[Demonstration of tumor inhibiting properties of a strongly immunostimulating low-molecular weight substance. Comparative studies with ifosfamide on the immuno-labile DS carcinosarcoma. Stimulation of the autoimmune activity for approx. 20 days by BA 1, a N-(2-cyanoethylene)-urea. Novel prophylactic possibilities].", "content": "A report is given on the recent discovery of outstanding immunological properties in BA 1 [N-(2-cyanoethylene)-urea] having a (low) molecular mass M = 111.104. Experiments in 214 DS carcinosarcoma bearing Wistar rats have shown that BA 1, at a dosage of only about 12 percent LD50 (150 mg kg) and negligible lethality (1.7 percent), results in a recovery rate of 40 percent without hyperglycemia and, in one test, of 80 percent with hyperglycemia. Under otherwise unchanged conditions the reference substance ifosfamide (IF) -- a further development of cyclophosphamide -- applied without hyperglycemia in its most efficient dosage of 47 percent LD50 (150 mg kg) brought about a recovery rate of 25 percent at a lethality of 18 percent. (Contrary to BA 1, 250-min hyperglycemia caused no further improvement of the recovery rate.) However this comparison is characterized by the fact that both substances exhibit two quite different (complementary) mechanisms of action. Leucocyte counts made after application of the said cancerostatics and dosages have shown a pronounced stimulation with BA 1 and with ifosfamide, the known suppression in the post-therapeutic interval usually found with standard cancerostatics. In combination with the cited plaque test for BA 1, blood pictures then allow conclusions on the immunity status. Since IF can be taken as one of the most efficient cancerostatics--there is no other chemotherapeutic known up to now that has a more significant effect on the DS carcinosarcoma in rats -- these findings are of special importance. Finally, the total amount of leucocytes and lymphocytes as well as their time behaviour was determined from the blood picture of tumour-free rats after i.v. application of BA 1. The thus obtained numerical values clearly show that further research work on the prophylactic use of this substance seems to be necessary and very promising.", "contents": "[Demonstration of tumor inhibiting properties of a strongly immunostimulating low-molecular weight substance. Comparative studies with ifosfamide on the immuno-labile DS carcinosarcoma. Stimulation of the autoimmune activity for approx. 20 days by BA 1, a N-(2-cyanoethylene)-urea. Novel prophylactic possibilities]. A report is given on the recent discovery of outstanding immunological properties in BA 1 [N-(2-cyanoethylene)-urea] having a (low) molecular mass M = 111.104. Experiments in 214 DS carcinosarcoma bearing Wistar rats have shown that BA 1, at a dosage of only about 12 percent LD50 (150 mg kg) and negligible lethality (1.7 percent), results in a recovery rate of 40 percent without hyperglycemia and, in one test, of 80 percent with hyperglycemia. Under otherwise unchanged conditions the reference substance ifosfamide (IF) -- a further development of cyclophosphamide -- applied without hyperglycemia in its most efficient dosage of 47 percent LD50 (150 mg kg) brought about a recovery rate of 25 percent at a lethality of 18 percent. (Contrary to BA 1, 250-min hyperglycemia caused no further improvement of the recovery rate.) However this comparison is characterized by the fact that both substances exhibit two quite different (complementary) mechanisms of action. Leucocyte counts made after application of the said cancerostatics and dosages have shown a pronounced stimulation with BA 1 and with ifosfamide, the known suppression in the post-therapeutic interval usually found with standard cancerostatics. In combination with the cited plaque test for BA 1, blood pictures then allow conclusions on the immunity status. Since IF can be taken as one of the most efficient cancerostatics--there is no other chemotherapeutic known up to now that has a more significant effect on the DS carcinosarcoma in rats -- these findings are of special importance. Finally, the total amount of leucocytes and lymphocytes as well as their time behaviour was determined from the blood picture of tumour-free rats after i.v. application of BA 1. The thus obtained numerical values clearly show that further research work on the prophylactic use of this substance seems to be necessary and very promising.", "PMID": 22}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_2", "title": "Effect of etafenone on total and regional myocardial blood flow.", "content": "The distribution of blood flow to the subendocardial, medium and subepicardial layers of the left ventricular free wall was studied in anaesthetized dogs under normoxic (A), hypoxic (B) conditions and under pharmacologically induced (etafenone) coronary vasodilation (C). Regional myocardial blood flow was determined by means of the particle distribution method. In normoxia a transmural gradient of flow was observed, with the subendocardial layers receiving a significantly higher flow rate compared with the subepicardial layers. In hypoxia induced vasodilation this transmural gradient of flow was persistent. In contrast a marked redistribution of regional flow was observed under pharmacologically induced vasodilation. The transmural gradient decreased. In contrast to some findings these experiments demonstrate that a considerable vasodilatory capacity exists in all layers of the myocardium and can be utilized by drugs. The differences observed for the intramural distribution pattern of flow under hypoxia and drug induced vasodilation support the hypothesis that this pattern reflects corresponding gradients of regional myocardial metabolism.", "contents": "Effect of etafenone on total and regional myocardial blood flow. The distribution of blood flow to the subendocardial, medium and subepicardial layers of the left ventricular free wall was studied in anaesthetized dogs under normoxic (A), hypoxic (B) conditions and under pharmacologically induced (etafenone) coronary vasodilation (C). Regional myocardial blood flow was determined by means of the particle distribution method. In normoxia a transmural gradient of flow was observed, with the subendocardial layers receiving a significantly higher flow rate compared with the subepicardial layers. In hypoxia induced vasodilation this transmural gradient of flow was persistent. In contrast a marked redistribution of regional flow was observed under pharmacologically induced vasodilation. The transmural gradient decreased. In contrast to some findings these experiments demonstrate that a considerable vasodilatory capacity exists in all layers of the myocardium and can be utilized by drugs. The differences observed for the intramural distribution pattern of flow under hypoxia and drug induced vasodilation support the hypothesis that this pattern reflects corresponding gradients of regional myocardial metabolism.", "PMID": 23}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_3", "title": "Influence of a new virostatic compound on the induction of enzymes in rat liver.", "content": "The virostatic compound N,N-diethyl-4-[2-(2-oxo-3-tetradecyl-1-imidazolidinyl)-ethyl]-1-piperazinecarboxamide-hydrochloride (5531) was analyzed as to its effect on the induction of tryptophan-pyrrolase and tyrosineaminotransferase in rat liver. 1. The basic activity of the enzymes was not influenced by the substance either in normal or in adrenalectomized animals. 2. The induction of the enzymes by cortisone increased in the presence of the compound whereas the substrate induction remained unchanged. 3. The induction of tyrosine-aminotransferase by dexamethasonephosphate in tissue culture is inhibited if the dose of compound 5531 is higher than 5 mug/ml.", "contents": "Influence of a new virostatic compound on the induction of enzymes in rat liver. The virostatic compound N,N-diethyl-4-[2-(2-oxo-3-tetradecyl-1-imidazolidinyl)-ethyl]-1-piperazinecarboxamide-hydrochloride (5531) was analyzed as to its effect on the induction of tryptophan-pyrrolase and tyrosineaminotransferase in rat liver. 1. The basic activity of the enzymes was not influenced by the substance either in normal or in adrenalectomized animals. 2. The induction of the enzymes by cortisone increased in the presence of the compound whereas the substrate induction remained unchanged. 3. The induction of tyrosine-aminotransferase by dexamethasonephosphate in tissue culture is inhibited if the dose of compound 5531 is higher than 5 mug/ml.", "PMID": 24}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_4", "title": "Pharmacological properties of new neuroleptic compounds.", "content": "RMI 61 140, RMI 61 144 and RMI 61 280 are newly synthetized N-[8-R-dibenzo(b,f)oxepin-10-yl]-N'-methyl-piperazine-maleates which show interesting psychopharmacologic effects. This work contains the results of a study performed with these three compounds, in order to demonstrate their neuropsycholeptic activity in comparison with chloropromazine (CPZ) and chlordiazepoxide (CPD). The inhibition of motility observed in mice shows that the compounds reduce the normal spontaneous motility as well as the muscle tone. The central-depressant activity is evidenced by increased barbiturate-induced sleep and a remarkable eyelid ptosis can also be observed. Our compounds do not show any activity on electroshock just as do CPZ and CPD. As to the antipsychotic outline, our compounds show strong reduction of lethality due to amphetamine in grouped mice and a strong antiapomorphine activity. They show also an antiaggressive effect and an inhibitory activity on avoidance behaviour much stronger than CPZ. We have also found extrapyramidal effects, as catalepsy, common to many tranquillizers of the kind of the standards used by us. As for vegetative phenomena, the compounds show hypotensive dose related action ranging from moderate to strong, probably due to an a-receptor inhibition. Adrenolytic activity against lethal doses of adrenaline, antiserotonin and antihistaminic effects, as well as other actions (hypothermia, analgesia, etc.) confirm that RMI 61 140, RMI 61 144 and RMI 61 280 are endowed with pharmacologic properties similar and more potent than those of CPZ. Studies on the metabolism of brain catecholamines show that they are similar to CPZ, although with less effect on dopamine level.", "contents": "Pharmacological properties of new neuroleptic compounds. RMI 61 140, RMI 61 144 and RMI 61 280 are newly synthetized N-[8-R-dibenzo(b,f)oxepin-10-yl]-N'-methyl-piperazine-maleates which show interesting psychopharmacologic effects. This work contains the results of a study performed with these three compounds, in order to demonstrate their neuropsycholeptic activity in comparison with chloropromazine (CPZ) and chlordiazepoxide (CPD). The inhibition of motility observed in mice shows that the compounds reduce the normal spontaneous motility as well as the muscle tone. The central-depressant activity is evidenced by increased barbiturate-induced sleep and a remarkable eyelid ptosis can also be observed. Our compounds do not show any activity on electroshock just as do CPZ and CPD. As to the antipsychotic outline, our compounds show strong reduction of lethality due to amphetamine in grouped mice and a strong antiapomorphine activity. They show also an antiaggressive effect and an inhibitory activity on avoidance behaviour much stronger than CPZ. We have also found extrapyramidal effects, as catalepsy, common to many tranquillizers of the kind of the standards used by us. As for vegetative phenomena, the compounds show hypotensive dose related action ranging from moderate to strong, probably due to an a-receptor inhibition. Adrenolytic activity against lethal doses of adrenaline, antiserotonin and antihistaminic effects, as well as other actions (hypothermia, analgesia, etc.) confirm that RMI 61 140, RMI 61 144 and RMI 61 280 are endowed with pharmacologic properties similar and more potent than those of CPZ. Studies on the metabolism of brain catecholamines show that they are similar to CPZ, although with less effect on dopamine level.", "PMID": 25}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_5", "title": "[Studies on the action of an anticholinergic agent in combination with a tranquilizer on gastric juice secretion in man].", "content": "A double-blind study with intra-individual comparisons was carried out to investigate the effects of 15 mg of (8r)-3alpha-hydroxy-8-isopropyl-1alphaH-tropanium bromide(+/-)-tropate (Sch 1000), 15 mg Sch 1000 + 10 mg oxazepam, 10 mg oxazepam and placebo with oral administration in randomized sequence on gastric juice volume, amount of acid, concentration and pH values in 12 healthy volunteers. The secretion parameters were measured during a 1-h basal period and a 2-h stimulation period. The gastric juice was obtained in 15 min portions via stomach tube. Stimulation was effected by 1 mug/kg/h pentagastrin via drip infusion. The Friedman test was used for the comparative statistical evaluation, and individual comparisons were carried out by means of the Wilcoxon test (pair-differences rank). The results show that Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were equal in effect on basal and stimulated secretion volume. As compared with placebo, it was not possible to establish an effect on secretion volume for oxazepam alone. Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were found to be equipotent in reducing the amount of basal acid, while oxazepam reduced this quantity only during the first 30 min of basal secretion. None of the three active preparations was capable of inhibiting the stimulated acid, although both Sch 1000 preparations produced a clear trend towards lowered mean values. During the basal secretion period, all three test preparations had an inhibiting action on acid concentration, but none of them had a significant effect during the stimulation period. The pH value was savely increased only by Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam, and this even only during the basal period. The results are discussed.", "contents": "[Studies on the action of an anticholinergic agent in combination with a tranquilizer on gastric juice secretion in man]. A double-blind study with intra-individual comparisons was carried out to investigate the effects of 15 mg of (8r)-3alpha-hydroxy-8-isopropyl-1alphaH-tropanium bromide(+/-)-tropate (Sch 1000), 15 mg Sch 1000 + 10 mg oxazepam, 10 mg oxazepam and placebo with oral administration in randomized sequence on gastric juice volume, amount of acid, concentration and pH values in 12 healthy volunteers. The secretion parameters were measured during a 1-h basal period and a 2-h stimulation period. The gastric juice was obtained in 15 min portions via stomach tube. Stimulation was effected by 1 mug/kg/h pentagastrin via drip infusion. The Friedman test was used for the comparative statistical evaluation, and individual comparisons were carried out by means of the Wilcoxon test (pair-differences rank). The results show that Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were equal in effect on basal and stimulated secretion volume. As compared with placebo, it was not possible to establish an effect on secretion volume for oxazepam alone. Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were found to be equipotent in reducing the amount of basal acid, while oxazepam reduced this quantity only during the first 30 min of basal secretion. None of the three active preparations was capable of inhibiting the stimulated acid, although both Sch 1000 preparations produced a clear trend towards lowered mean values. During the basal secretion period, all three test preparations had an inhibiting action on acid concentration, but none of them had a significant effect during the stimulation period. The pH value was savely increased only by Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam, and this even only during the basal period. The results are discussed.", "PMID": 26}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_6", "title": "Lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis. I. Glycosidases.", "content": "Seven distinct glycosidases (EC 3.2) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis. Their properties indicate them to be of lysosomal origin. The 'profile' of the epidermal glycosidases is significantly different from that reported for whole skin, the activities of beta-galactosidase and beta-acetylglucosaminidase being very high and those of the remaining enzymes relatively low in epidermis.", "contents": "Lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis. I. Glycosidases. Seven distinct glycosidases (EC 3.2) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis. Their properties indicate them to be of lysosomal origin. The 'profile' of the epidermal glycosidases is significantly different from that reported for whole skin, the activities of beta-galactosidase and beta-acetylglucosaminidase being very high and those of the remaining enzymes relatively low in epidermis.", "PMID": 30}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_7", "title": "Lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis. 2. Ester hydrolases.", "content": "Five distinct ester hydrolases (EC 3-1) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis. These are carboxylic esterase, acid phosphatase, pyrophosphatase, and arylsulphatase A and B. Their properties are consistent with those of lysosomal enzymes.", "contents": "Lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis. 2. Ester hydrolases. Five distinct ester hydrolases (EC 3-1) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis. These are carboxylic esterase, acid phosphatase, pyrophosphatase, and arylsulphatase A and B. Their properties are consistent with those of lysosomal enzymes.", "PMID": 31}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_8", "title": "A serum haemagglutinating property dependent upon polycarboxyl groups.", "content": "A serum agglutinin reactive with red cells in the presence of polycarboxyl groups is reported. It is likely that this represents an additional example of the type of agglutinin previously described as agglutinating red cells in the absence of ionized calcium. Experimental evidence is presented indicating that it is free polycarboxyl groups that potentiate agglutination and that any metal ion, such as calcium, capable of chelating with these groups will prove to be inhibitory.", "contents": "A serum haemagglutinating property dependent upon polycarboxyl groups. A serum agglutinin reactive with red cells in the presence of polycarboxyl groups is reported. It is likely that this represents an additional example of the type of agglutinin previously described as agglutinating red cells in the absence of ionized calcium. Experimental evidence is presented indicating that it is free polycarboxyl groups that potentiate agglutination and that any metal ion, such as calcium, capable of chelating with these groups will prove to be inhibitory.", "PMID": 32}
{"id": "pubmed23n0001_9", "title": "Effect of human erythrocyte stromata on complement activation.", "content": "Stroma from either normal or PNH-like red cells is capable of inhibiting, to some extent, lysis in the sucrose test and enhancing lysis in the acidified-serum test. The same opposing effects are displayed by the exclusion peaks from Sephadex G-200 obtained from each stroma preparation, suggesting that the same factor could be responsible for both activities. Stromata and peaks also induce lysis of PNH-like cells in unacidified serum, indicating activation of complement through the alternate pathway. This is confirmed by immunoelectrophoretic observation. When serum previously activated through the alternate pathway is used in the sucrose test the amount of lysis is markedly reduced. This would indicate that the classical pathway activation can be controlled by the alternate pathway. The possible clinical significance of these factors in determining the haemolytic crisis in PNH patients is discussed.", "contents": "Effect of human erythrocyte stromata on complement activation. Stroma from either normal or PNH-like red cells is capable of inhibiting, to some extent, lysis in the sucrose test and enhancing lysis in the acidified-serum test. The same opposing effects are displayed by the exclusion peaks from Sephadex G-200 obtained from each stroma preparation, suggesting that the same factor could be responsible for both activities. Stromata and peaks also induce lysis of PNH-like cells in unacidified serum, indicating activation of complement through the alternate pathway. This is confirmed by immunoelectrophoretic observation. When serum previously activated through the alternate pathway is used in the sucrose test the amount of lysis is markedly reduced. This would indicate that the classical pathway activation can be controlled by the alternate pathway. The possible clinical significance of these factors in determining the haemolytic crisis in PNH patients is discussed.", "PMID": 33}
